- When building a batch job, typically we execute steps
in sequence: one step at a time.
There can be scenarios when two steps must execute
in parallel.
Spring Batch supports this functionality by providing
splits.
A split allows us to execute two flows simultaneously
using multiple threads.
This technique can be used to improve the performance
of a job.
In order to take a look at a split, we're going to be adding
a Billing Flow.
So we'll modify our Billing Job and turn it into a flow.
And then within our Deliver Package Job, we're going to
execute the Delivery Flow and the Billing Flow in parallel
using a split.
In order to work with a split, we'll need to
build another flow.
So I'm going to navigate to our Billing Job,
and I'm going to copy the configuration of the Billing Job.
And then we're going to modify it in order to turn this job
into a flow.
So we'll need to return a flow from our method
because that's the type of bean that we would like to create
And then instead of a Billing Job,
we're going to create a Billing Flow.
Now we'll need to change the configuration,
we're not going to be using a job fillder.
So, let's remove some of that configuration.
We will be using the SendInvoiceStep within our flow.
So in order to build a flow, we use a FlowBuilder,
and that FlowBuilder has age in our type argument
of simple flow.
And then we have to give that flow a name.
We're going to be calling this our BillingFlow.
And once we've created that flow, we're now able to
include it within a split.
So we're going to introduce the split within our
DeliveryPackageJob.
So I'm going to navigate there,
and this is going to require us to modify some of the
configuration within this job.
So the first thing that we're going to do
is we're going to remove our DeliveryFlow,
and we're going to remove our job step.
And then we're going to use the split method
and this will cause the execution of our jobs
to perform the next steps in parallel.
Now in order to do that, we need to provide a task executer.
This is going to help create a thread for each of the
different tasks that we would like to execute
within this split so our two flows will each be assigned
a task and execute in separate threads.
We can use a very simple implementation of the task executer
It's the simple Async task executer.
And then from there we're going to define the flows that
we would like to add to the split using the add method.
Now you'll remember that we wanted to execute the
Delivery Flow.
And then we also wanted to perform our Billing Flow.
So let's specify both of those.
And at this point we have our job configured for a split.
Okay. So now let's navigate to our terminal.
And we're going to go ahead and run our Delivery Job.
Okay. Let's take a look at some of this output.
If we look at our job, you'll notice that we start by
driving to the address after we packaged the item.
And then we move into the invoice step,
and this is occurring at the same time
that we are delivering the item.
So billing and delivery are occurring in parallel.
And you can even see the different task executers
and the threads associated with them.
So, using the split, we were able to deviate from sequential
job execution.
Its important to remember that splits are used with flows
as opposed to steps or jobs.
And using this feature within spring batch,
you can simultaneously execute different job logic.